---
layout: post
title: Bangkok
date: 2017-09-13 00:00:00 +0000
tags: travel
excerpt: "After a longer than expected layover in Cologne where we dined on boxed salads and crisps, we arrived in Bangkok. When stepping off the plane the heat from the engines seemed to be scorching, we soon realised it was just that damned hot!"
---

## Arrival

After a longer than expected layover in Cologne where we dined on boxed salads and crisps, we arrived in Bangkok. When stepping off the plane the heat from the engines seemed to be scorching, but soon realised it was just that damned hot!

Stopping quickly at an airport cafe to enjoy a matcha green tea muffin, we were soon on the metro being whisked into Bangkok city center. The automated ticket machines were easy to use once switched to english mode, picking the stop needed on the map and inserted the desired about of baht. Instead of paper tickets a plastic coin is dispensed which you tapped on the way in, once at your final destination this token is dropped into the slot before your allowed out.

We arrived at Lumpini station and in the hustle and bustle of Bangkok. While trying to follow a map to our Airbnb we found out that foot paths were not really a thing in Bangkok. After fighting through the traffic and men with whistles directing traffic that didn't need directing we found our destination.

Hidden behind an upmarket Italian restaurant and local food market was our house, a private room in an 11 room tropical villa. The owner was not there so, using the keys they had left, we went to the room. Nothing special but with a balcony and an all important air conditioning unit.


## Lumpini Park

Lumpini park was right on our doorstep and was one of the biggest "green lungs" in Bangkok. We wandered this park many times whilst in the city, and used it for running and the odd workout. There was a 2.5 km running route around the park which in the evenings was used by thousands, so many it felt like you were running a race! Dotted throughout the park were workout machines and bars, from bodyweight chest press machines to strange leg swinging contraptions. These too were used extensively in the evenings when things were a bit cooler. The park also boasted a few dance fitness classes, free to take part in and very popular, there was a range of music on offer from dance music to Westlife!


## Pratunam

Known as the technical district and billed as a great area for geeks to visit it was one of our first stops. Although interesting to see, it felt a little overwhelming and touristy. Yes, there were plenty of electrical market stalls and lots too see, but more than a quick glance and you were a target of some heavy sales techniques. Not a place for window shopping. A short walk away was CentralWorld, Siam and MBK shopping centers, these are more like western shopping centers and had all the usual stuff. While we were there a Hipster market was running between the Siam centers, although not many beards in sight.


## Terminal 21

A interesting shopping center where the ground floor is themed like a Airport departure lounge, the security guard at the metal detector was even dressed as a Pilot saluting you as your bags are searched. Each floor is themed like a different city of the world, like Tokyo, London and San Fransisco among others. Unlike other shopping centers this had smaller stores alongside the big names, you could spend a long time wondering through these little market style shops.


## Chatuchak Market

This weekend market is a must see, one of the worlds largest open air markets you can spend a whole day here and not see all of it! Alongside more traditional stalls there is a section of more upmarket and designer'y goods, some of which we saw in the smaller stores of Terminal 21 but at a lower price. We thoroughly enjoyed wondering for hours here, we also stuck around until the evening and went to the JJ Green night market, a short walk away, which was much smaller and great for food.


## Amulet market

Although I failed to find myself an amulet this is very interesting place to wonder around. From the tacky to the ancient looking there seems to be amulets for everyone. We saw monks and people with eye glasses inspecting every detail of these small charms even though most seemed mass produced. Just outside there was an "After You" cafe were we devoured Honey Toast, a hollowed out loaf of bread doused in honey and ice cream. Definitely a treat to share!


## Grand Palace

As the Grand Palace was a short walk away we decided to aim for there. We were politely escorted across the road by a gentleman with an umbrella who pointed the way. We followed his directions into a court yard where another man started talking to us. He told us it wasn't a good time to see the Palace, instead we should take a Tok Tok to see other temples in the area. It dawned on us these guys were in cahoots and this court yard would not lead to the Palace. After making our excuses and avoiding an extortionate Tok Tok ride we found the correct path. Unfortunately due to the very strict dress code, and no desire to buy the elephant print tourist trousers, meant we never did see the Palace.


## Wat Pho

After being disappointed at the Grand Palace we found the dress code at this temple less strict. The reclining Buddha was quite something, his feet being especially fancy. Although seeing the Buddha was only part of the experience as afterwards you get to explore the maze like grounds of the temple. From little garden areas to buildings lined with golden statues it seemed to go on forever. We sat here and quietly contemplated life before heading back out to the scorching streets filled with street hawkers and pushy Tok Tok salesmen.


## Khaosan Road

We saved this popular little tourist attraction to last. Be prepared to be complimented, shouted at, guilt tripped and sweet talked as you walk down this street filled with bars, street food, tailors and tourists. While we were there it started to rain, which seemed to empty the street fairly quickly and made our path to the bar much clearer. From Khaosan road we took a hot and stuffy night bus south, heading towards the islands in the Gulf of Thailand.
