---
layout: post
title: Hat Yai
date: 2017-10-03 00:00:00 +0000
tags: travel
excerpt: "After an uneventful ferry ride to Dom Sak we boarded a van heading for Hat Yai. Vans were mini busses which take people all over Thailand, although not as comfortable as busses they are cheap."
---

## Bus

After an uneventful ferry ride to Dom Sak we boarded a van heading for Hat Yai. Vans were mini busses which take people all over Thailand, although not as comfortable as busses they are cheap. The first van we got on was fairly spacious, with air conditioning and plenty of room as there were not many onboard. Halfway through the journey we were dropped off at a van station and given plastic tokens and pointed to some plastic chairs. After half an hour we were ushered onto another van, choosing a seat at the back we were soon surrounded by people and bags. This van didn't have aircon, instead there was a fan pushing the hot sticky air around. After a 4 hours we were spat out in Hat Yai.


## Accommodation

We were staying at a large apartment block called Plus Condo 2. Plus Condo 1 was over the other side of the city so it was important to get this right when getting taxis. It was an upscale block that housed, not one, but two infinity pools! We only found the one. Our small but well formed condo on the 8th floor had everything we could want, including a much needed washing machine.


## Clock tower

Hat Yai was not a major tourist destination and this was reflected in the lack of attractions in the town. A clock tower and fountain were at the top of the list of things to see, although the clock tower was rather small and the fountain was out of order. The lack of things to do left us to relax and enjoy our days bumbling through the streets and encountering quite markets and cafes.


## Swimming

After exploring most of what the town could offer we dived into the infinity pool on the top floor of the block. It was strange swimming out to nothingness, a little nervy but exhilarating. After the novelty had worn off, with wrinkles setting in, we dried off at the side of the pool with views over Hat Yai. With no parks to run around we had to settle for the running machines in the gym. This too had great views over the town and good air conditioning which made running more pleasant.


## Massage

After a great massage listening too the sea in Koh Samui I decided to try another massage in this, the last place in Thailand we were visiting. Our Airbnb host had given a recommendation for a place 10 minutes walk away so I took off in search of it. Next to the Tesco Lotus Express was a seated an old man and sign pointing upstairs to the massage parlour. The old man opened the door for me and pointed upstairs. This place only offered traditional Thai massages which, as no one spoke english, made explaining what I would like easier. I was directed to a dark room with several massage beds and given a pair of oversized shorts and a towel and then left alone. Feeling out of my comfort zone I assumed I had to undress and put on the shorts. Sitting at the end of the bed in these silly shorts I suddenly felt I could of misconstrued the use for the shorts. At that point the masseuse arrived, laughed and gestured for me to lie on the bed with the towel covering my top half. I believe the shorts were right. The massage lasted 2 hours and was very thorough, at one point even being hoisted backwards across the masseurs knees. Afterwards I was given tea and left alone again.


## Airport

Our main reason for visiting Hat Yai was that it had a airport with regular flights to Kuala Lumpur, our next destination. After very cheap Tuk Tuk ride to the small airport we were soon on our way to Malaysia and saying goodbye to Thailand.
